## Technical Glossary  
* __Computational analysis workflow__ – a description of successive computational analyses, each defined by a given input (either base or preceding output), a complete compute instruction, yielding an expected output. Can be generalised for a given type of input. Multiple implementations with their respective formats of description exist. Examples of computational analysis workflows flavours include Nextflow, Galaxy, Knime - also see Nextflow 
* __Container engine__ – software used to run software container images. DockerEngine and Podman can run Docker images, singularity can run singularity images and docker images after on-the-fly conversion.
* __Containerisation__ – see software containerisation 
* __Nextflow__ – a specific system to describe computational analysis workflows and an implementation to execute such descriptions for a given input, automation possible. Nextflows accepts software containers as part of the description, and is capable of running on different environments. Has a large user-community and frequent use spans multiple *omics fields.   	 
* __Mzml__ – a XML format to represent a mass spectrometry experiment with all recorded spectra with accompanying parameters. It is an open and vendor-neutral format, capable of dealing with thousands of spectra efficiently, which makes it an ideal method for sharing and publishing mass spectrometry research data. Its wide acceptance makes it also ideal for software developers to access mass spectrometry data for computational analysis without the overhead of vendor- and instrument specific libraries to access proprietary data formats. In turn, users of mass spectrometry data benefit from increased tool interoperability and better reproducibility. - also see open data standard 
* __Mztab__ – a tab-separated text format for the representation of identification and quantification data of mass spectrometry data. It is an open format, capable of dealing with multiple identification and quantification methods while reliably keeping reference to the originating data. It can be created programmatically or edited manually (in any spreadsheet software). Its wide acceptance makes it also ideal for software developers to access or report mass spectrometry analysis results by computational analysis. In turn, users of mass spectrometry data benefit from increased tool interoperability and better reproducibility. In case no established software yet exists for a given novel analysis method, users of mass spectrometry data can use mzTab to share individual results regardless by crafting their own spreadsheet. - also see open data standard 
* ___Open Data Standard___ – Open standards for data are documented, reusable agreements that help people and organisations to publish, access, share and use better quality data[https://standards.theodi.org]. In proteomics, the PSI facilitates forums for standard development and community discourse, standard proposal review and accreditation. Notable standards include mzML and mzTab. 
* __Research compute infrastructure__ – commonly known as “compute cluster” or short “cluster”. A network of many powerful servers for parallel or otherwise resource intensive computations. Almost exclusively running linux software. Usually expert-maintained on institutional level or higher and notoriously difficult to install software on.   
* __Singularity container__ – see singularity 
* __Singularity__ – Open Container Initiative (OCI) software or container engine. Used to run singularity containers on linux. Its main advantage is the seamless integration into a running system without user permission escalation. This makes singularity ideal to run software on research compute infrastructure without the need to install software or keep specific environments for distinct versions of software. - also see container engine
* __Software containerisation__ – A system to provide a piece of software with all necessary dependencies to run on any computer capable of running a given container type. Container types are defined by the Open Container Initiative (OCI), notable container types include docker and singularity. Software containerisation is the most reliable way to distribute and run (i.e. deploy) software. They operate by recording a virtual image of a (vanilla) operating system and all subsequent installation and setup operations as defined by a “recipe” (Dockerfile or singularity definition file for docker or singularity respectively). These images can then be distributed and run to provide that particular software. An anachronistic analogy might be video tapes, but it's digital. Contenders then were VHS and betamax, or DVD and VCD, for software containers it's docker and singularity. Rentals(Blockbuster), music-shops, and libraries are called container registries, and there are no late fees.  
* __Python notebook__ – also known as “jupyter notebook” and “colab notebook” as software branded instances. A digital notebook with markdown and scripting language support (specifically but not exclusively python). They can contain narrative text, compute code, equations, and images. Python notebooks are ideal for data science due to their interactive way of handling code, data, and images, and are therefore popular for data visualisation.  
* __Workflow__  –  can refer to any succession of task – also see computational analysis workflow 
